---
published: true
layout: post
title: 'Ideas Post #01'
categories:
  - ideas
tags:
  - slam
  - car hacking
  - iot
  - smart farming
  - robots
  - drones
date: 2020-03-06 -0300
place: Belo Horizonte
---

Ok, I've just read an amazing 2017 article about [Car Hacking](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/hacking-cars-a-guide-tutorial-on-how-to-hack-a-car-5eafcfbbb7ec/), which isn't a very new thing, but the idea of multiple ECUs (Electronic Control Units) communicating trough a network is very smart... and quite dangerous.

### _Car Hacking_

Currently, I don't own a car or have a driver's license but when the time comes, for sure I'll hack into my automobile, get all the data that I own and make some neat graphs, and try to gather some useful information.

Also, It made me wonder about how modern aircraft systems communicate, if it is a protocol like CAM, it concerns me. I remember having a small lecture about this about the B787 Dreamliner, but, sadly, I don't remember much of it, must search for annotations.

### _Smart Farming_

One of the parts of car hacking is the hardware. For this, I've reached a company named [Seeed](https://www.seeed.cc/), which makes not only microcontrollers (Arduino like) but have entire solutions on IoT for "Smart Farming", "Smart Cities", monitoring and data transmission.

To me, this is such a trend because I've recently visited a cow farm at the Brazilian Center-West countryside, and the distances are so extensive, that keep track of everything by truck or car is very time and human consuming, so the owner, who most of the time isn't at the farm, thrusts its employees to monitor, make the maintenance and solve the problems. The idea's to automate the monitoring problem, so the employees can find the problems easily, and the owners can see this with their own eyes. The real need for this innovation isn't a closed question of course, but there is a trend going there.

### _SLAM_

And when we talk about monitoring of extensive and large areas, we think about aerial monitoring, or in these days not only about unmanned aerial monitoring, but autonomous aerial monitoring, or in other words, autonomous drones.

An autonomous drone is nothing but a flying robot. And robots hardly have a previously know map of where things are, so it doesn't crash or lose itself. So there is SLAM (Simultaneous Localization and Mapping).

SLAM is a form of a robot to perceive and remember the 3D world around itself. It can use cameras and other sensors to really create a map as long it moves through the environment. In the end, I believe that with this understanding and computational vision, robot decision making will be magnificent.

Also think of the enormous sets of data that exist in images of streets, from people's cameras, Google's Street View, satellites, fixed security cameras. If in some way we could clusterize, filter and join those images, we could recreate any environment in space, and maybe in time!

---

P.S.:
This will be a series of posts that I'll make when ideas are bubbling my mind, and I need to place them somewere.
