---
published: true
layout: post
title: 'Ideas #02'
categories: ideas
data: 2020-04-28 -3000
place: Belo Horizonte
tags:
 - CV
 - AI
 - meteorology
 - clouds
---
Ok, Its one of those times were I'm freaking out with some ideas.

First, I've seen a bunch of recent work in ground-based cloud classification. It's incredible, they're using CV and multimodal data to classify clouds.

For those who don't know, clouds have 10+ shape types (like Cumulus, Stratus, Cirrus, and so on), and this information is crucial to meteorological science.

I've got a friend who works with CV and after some talk, I thought of more possibilities of use.

We have space-based satellite cloud information that is already classified. This could be used as multimodal information if a cloud image has geoinformation and timestamp data.

But, which area of the map we use to cross-check the data?

Well, we could use trigonometry and discover a simple relation to height and distance, but I've found the concept of Sky View Factor, which is a factor of how the sky image is blocked. With this, we could have a more precise area selection from the satellite data.

Now think, about a weather station, it can cross information about temperature, pressure, wind, sky image, and geolocalization data, and who knows what more!

That's insane!

And, those weather stations could be a useful tool in farms and places where there inst good meteorological data.

HOLD ON THERE IS MORE

How about stereoscopic cloud images?
Perhaps with this, the neurons could get cloud distance information, and more estimate wind speed and direction if is an image sequence and in each atmospheric layer!
